siminos/CLE/PhysD-v1/reviews/response1.2.txt
$Author$ $Date$
===========================================================

Reviewer #2: Report on Manuscript Number PHYSD-D-10-00070

CONTINUOUS SYMMETRY REDUCTION AND
RETURN MAPS FOR HIGHER-DIMENSIONAL FLOWS

by E. Siminos and P. Cvitanovic

The authors give a brief introduction to the theory of
continuous symmetries in dynamical systems, and present two
well-established methods for reducing dissipative flows with
continuous symmetries to simpler systems. First, they discuss
the use of Hilbert bases (which can also be useful for discrete
symmetries) and argue that this method is unsuitable for
high-dimensional flows such as those produced by truncations of
parabolic PDEs. Then the authors describe the method of moving
frames and the related method of slices, which seem more
promising for use with high-dimensional flows. Both methods are
applied to the complex Lorenz equations (CLE), a five-
dimensional ODE with a one-dimensional group of symmetries
SO(2).

The manuscript gives a nice and reasonably self-contained
review of the two methods, and probably gives a gentle
introduction to the ideas used in the more substantial
forthcoming work [73] where the advantages of the moving frames
method would likely be made more apparent. Several "historical
notes" in the manuscript give useful and interesting
information on the historical development of the theory and
applications.

Most of the manuscript is devoted to a review of symmetry and
the two methods, and only some six of 26 pages of text is
devoted to applications of the two methods to the CLE. As far
as I know, the results for the CLE are new, but more recent
works on the CLE should be cited, particularly those that make
use of the symmetry (for example: Vladimirov et al., Int. J.
Bif. Chaos 8 (1998) 723-729).

	ES: internal comment, not intented as part of the response:
	This reminds me of Predrag's `irrelevant remark' :
		I did not `follow' [Rowley and Marsden, 2003].
		I first derived the equations, then identified them
		in earlier papers, as is what usually happens.
	We could also say the same about the moving frame method, we first
	applied it then identified it with Cartan's method. We might as
	well have written a paper with title `A novel method for symmetry
	reduction in high-dimensional flows.' and never bothered to read
	Fels and Olver. It appears that reading papers does more harm than good,
	I am confused about how to proceed in science.

	ES: More serious comment on novelty:
	Method of slices has been re-invented many times and used in symmetry
	reduction in many different contexts. Here we raise the issue of its
	possible utility in uncovering the global topological structure of
	high dimensional flows, a purpose which Hilbert bases have served
	very well in low dimensions. All studies we know of, that utilize the method
	of slides are local in nature.
	
	Regarding the method of moving frames on the other hand, we have only
	encountered it in very different settings, usually more abstract equivalence
	problems and certainly not explicitly connected to the problem of symmetry reduction of
	nonlinear flows, or to the relation to the method of slices.


One of the main points the authors make is the superiority of
the method of moving frames when applied to high-dimensional
systems of ODEs, but the low dimensionality of the CLE, as well
as the simple nature of the symmetry, do not make the
advantages of the moving frame method apparent. For the CLE,
both methods give essentially the same information for a
comparable amount of work.


	ES: From a CPU-time perspective this is true. From a conceptual perspective it
	is not. Using the method of moving frames requires only high-school math;
	using the method of slices perhaps some freshman differential equations course.
	On the other hand generating a Hilbert basis for even this simple group action
	requires advanced algebraic geometry. Programming computational methods
	to compute a Hilbert basis is also rather involved and I have quickly
	lost interest in doing so, as well as motivation given such methods helpless performance
	Programming the method of moving frames to generate explicit invariants
	is just a few lines of Mathematica code. Programming it numerically is also trivial.
	Programming the method of slices is not different that
    integrating any ODE (singularities aside).


If a simple comparison of the two methods is intended, an even
simpler system could be used for the purposes of illustration,
such as a system in the plane equivariant with respect to the
usual action of SO(2).


	ES: Is this just plain ironic comment? Should we quote
    Einstein on simplicity, then? 	I will treat it as a
    well meant comment and try to reply:

	In such a case both methods reduce to using polar coordinates and there is nothing
	to explain in terms of symmetry reduction, even more so in terms of symmetry reduction
	for a nonlinear flow. As we hope is made clear in the manuscript, polar coordinates
	have not been proved suitable for the study of high-dimensional nonlinear flows.
	Furthermore, when one has to deal with truncations of PDE's, then quite
	often the group acts on irreducible subspaces. CLe is the simplest system
	we know of that is equivariant under a group action of this form.


On the other hand, to boost the novel content of the
manuscript, and also to strengthen the case for the moving
frame method, some results from [73] could be included together
with some relevant discussion. For example, one needs to be
lucky or clever in the choice of Poincare section, or of a
slice fixing point, and reading the manuscript one is left
curious how these vital choices are to be made in a
large-dimensional system.


Some minor points: the notation g(t) on p.7 needs to be
explained since it is not the same use as equation (4); 

ES: fixed

in the first paragraph of 5.2 there are some inconsistencies in the
use of the word "section"; 

ES: Probably the reviewer means we say section instead of Poincare section?
Fixed this.

there are some missing dates and
page numbers, or incorrect dates in the references (for
example: [31], [19]); reference [28] is not a monograph.

ES: fixed. Will doublecheck all references.
