siminos/CLE/PhysD-v1/reviews/response1.2.txt
$Author$ $Date$
===========================================================

Reviewer #2: Report on Manuscript Number PHYSD-D-10-00070

CONTINUOUS SYMMETRY REDUCTION AND
RETURN MAPS FOR HIGHER-DIMENSIONAL FLOWS

by E. Siminos and P. Cvitanovic

The authors give a brief introduction to the theory of
continuous symmetries in dynamical systems, and present two
well-established methods for reducing dissipative flows with
continuous symmetries to simpler systems. First, they discuss
the use of Hilbert bases (which can also be useful for discrete
symmetries) and argue that this method is unsuitable for
high-dimensional flows such as those produced by truncations of
parabolic PDEs. Then the authors describe the method of moving
frames and the related method of slices, which seem more
promising for use with high-dimensional flows. Both methods are
applied to the complex Lorenz equations (CLE), a five-
dimensional ODE with a one-dimensional group of symmetries
SO(2).

The manuscript gives a nice and reasonably self-contained
review of the two methods, and probably gives a gentle
introduction to the ideas used in the more substantial
forthcoming work [73] where the advantages of the moving frames
method would likely be made more apparent. Several "historical
notes" in the manuscript give useful and interesting
information on the historical development of the theory and
applications.

Most of the manuscript is devoted to a review of symmetry and
the two methods, and only some six of 26 pages of text is
devoted to applications of the two methods to the CLE. As far
as I know, the results for the CLE are new, but more recent
works on the CLE should be cited, particularly those that make
use of the symmetry (for example: Vladimirov et al., Int. J.
Bif. Chaos 8 (1998) 723-729).

	Thank you for the Vladimirov et al. reference, we now cite
	it along with other more recent papers that study geometric
	phase in CLE and related models.

	The method of slices has been re-invented many times and used in symmetry
	reduction in many different contexts. The method of moving 
	frames, even if simple and intuitive has only been implicitly used 
	for symmetry reduction in PDEs (for example by Barkley (1994)).
	We find it therefore very useful to connect it to the recent formulation
	of Fels and Olver (1998).  
	
	Moreover we raise here the issue of the	possible utility of such methods 
	in uncovering the global topological structure of high dimensional flows.
	All studies that utilize the method of slides we know of, are local in nature
	and therefore the presence of singularities and their dependence
	on slice fixing point has not been thoroughly studied. 
	

One of the main points the authors make is the superiority of
the method of moving frames when applied to high-dimensional
systems of ODEs, but the low dimensionality of the CLE, as well
as the simple nature of the symmetry, do not make the
advantages of the moving frame method apparent. For the CLE,
both methods give essentially the same information for a
comparable amount of work.


	From a CPU-time perspective this is true. From a conceptual perspective it
	is not. We have used a known Hilbert basis for the group action, obscuring
	the fact that advanced algebraic geometry is required for their algorithmic
	determination, in contrast to the method of slices (moving frames) that only
	requires elementary calculus (algebra).

If a simple comparison of the two methods is intended, an even
simpler system could be used for the purposes of illustration,
such as a system in the plane equivariant with respect to the
usual action of SO(2).


	In such a case both methods reduce to using polar coordinates and there is nothing
	to explain in terms of symmetry reduction, even more so in terms of symmetry reduction
	for a nonlinear flow. As we hope is made clear in the manuscript, polar coordinates
	have not been proved suitable for the study of equivariant nonlinear flows.
	Furthermore, when one has to deal with truncations of PDE's, then quite
	often the group acts on a space with the structure of a direct sum of 
	irreducible subspaces. CLe is the simplest system we know of that is 
	equivariant under a group action of this form. We do not know of any studies
	that utilize the method of moving frames for such applications. We now discuss
	this and related points in the first paragraphs of sections 2 and 6.


On the other hand, to boost the novel content of the
manuscript, and also to strengthen the case for the moving
frame method, some results from [73] could be included together
with some relevant discussion. For example, one needs to be
lucky or clever in the choice of Poincare section, or of a
slice fixing point, and reading the manuscript one is left
curious how these vital choices are to be made in a
large-dimensional system.

	One needs to be lucky or clever indeed to choose a Poincare section
	for systems of dimension higher than three, and choice of a slice 
	seems to be about as hard. We do not feel that including 
	results from [73] will be illuminating in this respect. Some preview
	of results for KSe is given in Siminos thesis.

Some minor points: the notation g(t) on p.7 needs to be
explained since it is not the same use as equation (4); 
in the first paragraph of 5.2 there are some inconsistencies in the
use of the word "section"; 
there are some missing dates and
page numbers, or incorrect dates in the references (for
example: [31], [19]); reference [28] is not a monograph.

	Fixed all these issues, thank you. 
