                                                     7 Apr 2009
Author responses to Referee #2:
    "State space geometry of a spatio-temporally
     chaotic Kuramoto-Sivashinsky flow,"
            P Cvitanovic, RL Davidchack, and E Siminos
    submitted to SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems
----------------------------------------------------------

( The review is given in full with author responses listed in
  parenthetical comments. The reference list is at the bottom
  of this text. The text edits are colored blue in the referee
  version of the resubmitted article. )

( Authors to the Referee #2:
   1) Thank you. Your referee report is probably the most
thoughtful and the most helpful of all we have received in
the sum total of our 3 careers.
   2) The resubmission comes at the last possible deadline
given to us by the editors, as we have hoped to have the
paper II finished, and be able to answer some of your
questions by rebalancing the contents of the two papers. We
failed, so this paper is resubmitted without inclusion of any
more recent research results)

Referee #2 (Remarks to the Authors):
The present manuscript concerns the Kuramoto-Sivashinsky (KS)
equation, a model equation for complex dynamics in a
deterministic PDE. There is already an extensive literature
on this PDE, much of which discusses the apparently
low-dimensional dynamical behavior and bifurcations displayed
for relatively small system size L; while for large L this
PDE is a much-studied example of spatio-temporal (extensive)
chaos. The work under review is part of an ongoing program of
the first author (Cvitanovic) and his collaborators, dating
back to Christiansen et al. (Ref. [3]), to identify
(unstable) equilibria and periodic orbits, and to
characterize chaotic and turbulent behavior as a "walk
through the space of unstable patterns." A particular goal of
this program has been the extension of periodic orbit (cycle)
theory to infinite-dimensional dynamical systems (PDEs), to
allow the computation of long-time averages of the chaotic
dynamics via cycle expansions: appropriately ordered and
weighted sums over periodic orbits; progress has included the
development of algorithms to determine (a large number of)
unstable periodic orbits and their properties.

While previous related work on the KS equation (Refs. [3, 22,
23]) was restricted to the subspace of odd solutions, which
imposes strong constraints on the dynamics, in the manuscript
under review this restriction has been lifted. Consequently,
the system being studied has continuous as well as discrete
symmetries, and a focus of this work is to study the effect
of the continuous symmetries which permit, in addition to
fixed points and periodic orbits, also relative equilibria and
periodic orbits. The authors discuss symmetries and some
associated dynamically significant invariant subspaces,
identify and study equilibria and relative equilibria, and in
particular compute many relative periodic orbits. They find
interesting (but previously known) heteroclinic connections
between some of the equilibria, and give examples of unstable
(relative) periodic orbits which appear to resemble (in some
representations) and yield similar averages to the observed
chaotic dynamics.

( ##PC are ALL of our heteroclinic connections 'previously
  known?'
  ##ES: The heteroclinic connections we observe for our system
	size are not studied in Kevrekidis et al and or
	Armbruster et al. The reason they exist and are robust
	is described in Kevrekidis et al(1990) (and to some
	extend in Armbruster et al (1989), even though their analysis
	is local and therefore not readily applicable in more
	general situations). Here we pay attention on the role
	they play in providing a mechanism for recurrence in an
	attempt to understand the relative periodic orbits in
	their vicinity. This is resonant with the studies of
	Armbruster et. al (1989) and Brown and Kevrekidis(1996) that
	link the birth of modulated traveling waves to an infinite
	period global bifurcation involving a homoclinic loop
	connecting equilibria. The other mechanism of creation
	of MTWs, the bifurcation of traveling waves (Krupa(1990), Brown
	and Kevrekidis (1996)) hints on the importance of the unstable
	manifolds of traveling waves in organizing the MTWs we have
	determined. This will be the subject of a future investigations,
	see [Siminos et al 2009]; some preliminary results can be found
	in [Siminos 2009].
)

The vision that "equilibria, relative equilibria, periodic
orbits and relative periodic orbits . . . form the repertoire
of recurrent spatio-temporal patterns explored by turbulent
dynamics" (p.22) is very appealing, but, in the light of the
comments and concerns discussed below, unfortunately I do not
feel that this manuscript yet provides sufficient evidence to
support this conclusion. Thus, while I feel that this general
research direction has much promise, I do not feel that I can
recommend publication of this manuscript as it stands.

Some detailed comments:
=======================

Turbulence/Spatiotemporal Chaos/Chaos
=====================================

A stated motivation for the present work is the understanding
of the dynamics of turbulence; and the authors, following
numerous precedents (for instance Ref. [16]), study the KS
equation as a simpler model equation displaying some features
relevant to turbulent flows. However, the authors fail to
emphasize the significant differences between their model
system and the fully-fledged turbulence, or even
spatiotemporal chaos - sometimes labeled "weak turbulence" -
see for instance the book by Manneville (1990).

( The referee has here put her finger on the painful spot,
the issue we have grappled with for a decades. As our
approach is neither the traditional applied math fixation on
\epsilons and bifurcations, nor the physicists' fixation on
matters Kolmogorov, there is no universally accepted
nomenclature that spans all the scales we need to span. If we
remove the words 'turbulence' and 'spatiotemporal chaos',
then the relevance of what we do to larger systems is
obscured. Only bath water is left, no baby. The geometric
approach we use is applicable not only in relatively small
'chaotic' system, but also in large 'spatiotemporally
chaotic' and very large 'turbulent' systems. In this sense we
do not distinguish between these systems. The key aspect we
study here - continuous spatial symmetry of the system - is
pertinent to all these system, independent of their size.
The new text in introduction attempts to say that more clearly
than the original submission. )

On p.2 of this manuscript, it is stated that the terms
"turbulence" and "spatiotemporal chaos" are used
interchangeably; and both terms are used to describe to the
dynamics of the L = 22 KS equation studied in this manuscript
" L = 22 is claimed to be "the smallest system size for which
KS empirically exhibits "sustained turbulence" " (p.21). This
seems to me not in accord with generally accepted usage:
turbulent states (associated usually with fluid dynamics) are
characterized by a range of scales and an energy cascade;
spatiotemporal chaos (STC) refers to (large) extended systems
with chaotic behavior characterized by a decay of spatial
correlations, in which the attractor dimension and number of
positive Lyapunov exponents diverges with system size L (see
for instance Cross & Hohenberg, Rev. Mod. Phys. 65, 851
(1993)). (My understanding is that to have STC, it is not
sufficient merely to have chaotic temporal dynamics occurring
in a PDE or other system with spatial dependence.) For the KS
equation in the present scaling, STC occurs (roughly) for L>
50 - 60.

( title of the revised paper is now the emotionally neutral
  "On the state space geometry of the
  Kuramoto-Sivashinsky flow in a periodic domain" )

   ## PC: cite Cross & Hohenberg?

For the system size considered in the present manuscript, L =
22, on the other hand, the chaotic dynamics are
low-dimensional, with a single positive Lyapunov exponent
(p.10); there is no wide range of scales involved, nor decay
of spatial correlations, and the system is not nearly in the
extensively chaotic regime. Indeed, if one chooses slightly
larger L, say L = 25, the KS dynamics are again attracted to
a stable tri-modal equilibrium; and as shown for instance by
Hyman, Nicolaenko & Zaleski, Physica D 23, 265 (1986), there
is a sequence of several more attracting fixed points,
periodic and traveling wave solutions interspersed with
chaotic behavior before the extensively chaotic regime is
attained (L = 22 corresponds to a slightly larger than 49 in
the scaling of Hyman et al.; see Fig. 1b of that paper).

( )
   ## PC: why are we not citing Hyman, Nicolaenko & Zaleski?

In fact, it is proved (not "expected", as on p.10) that there
is a finite-dimensional inertial manifold (see Ref. [9]; an
upper bound on the dimension is given, for instance, in
Jolly, Rosa & Temam, Adv. Diff. Eqns. 5, 31 (2000)), which
indicates that the dynamics are rigorously low-dimensional.

( We already credit [Foias et al 1985] for this in the 2nd
paragraph of the introduction. Now we have also added a
reference to Jolly, Rosa & Temam. Entre nous, these bounds
are useless for our purposes - t********e has too be resolved
to the finest scale of a particular solution, and the high
dimensional DNS is the only way. That is even more dramatic
when computing exact invariant solutions of the
Navier-Stokes. )

While the chaotic dynamics of such a relatively small KS
system are of interest in their own right, I thus feel it is
inappropriate to label this as "turbulent" or even
"spatiotemporally chaotic" behavior, especially as for
slightly larger L the chaotic dynamics disappear again.

( What the referee means is that the *strange attractor*
  is not structurally stable. This question is not likely to
  be ever settled for KS or NS flows, considering that we cannot
  settle it even for the Henon parameter values of the Henon
  map. The non-wandering set, however, persists and grows as
  L is increased. The chaotic dynamics does not `disappear;'
  it is always transient, with transient time likely to go
  to infinity for all practical purposes as L increases. )


For these reasons I also feel that the use of
"spatio-temporally chaotic" in the title of this manuscript
is incorrect. Instead, I agree with the statement on p.22
that "much of the observed dynamics is specific to this
unphysical, externally imposed periodicity. What needs to be
understood is the nature of the equilibrium and relative
periodic orbit solutions in the L -> limit ...".

( removed: `spatiotemporal' from the title and most other
  places )

On a related point: as motivation for the investigations of
this manuscript, Fig. 2.1 of the present manuscript shows a
typical spatiotemporally chaotic (not "turbulent") solution
of the KS equation for L ~ 89; however, this is for a much
larger system than the L = 22 system studied in this work. I
feel that (instead of or in addition to Fig. 2.1) a
representation of a "typical" chaotic solution for L = 22
should be shown, to facilitate comparison with trajectories
such as those of the relative periodic orbits of Fig. 6.1.

( Fig. 2.1 shows now "a typical spatiotemporally chaotic"
  behavior. Added figure 4.1 at the beginning of Section 4. )

( Removed figure 6.1 and related text, pp.17-18 of 1st
submission. Replaced it by a figure showing the numbers of
RPOs and PPOs with period < T as functions of T. It shows
that the numbers of RPOs and PPOs are approx. equal and that
they grow exponentially with increasing T up to T ~ 130, so
that we are mostly missing orbits with T > 130 and that the
total numbers of RPOs and PPOs with T < 200 should be over
70000 each. )

	
Relative Periodic Orbits and Symmetries
=======================================

In addition to the works cited (Refs. [14,20]), there is an
extensive literature on equilibria, periodic orbits, and
related solutions for the KS equation; thus I feel that more
references to prior work, placing the investigations of this
manuscript in the context of existing results on the
dynamics, symmetries, geometry and bifurcations of small-L KS
equations, would have been appropriate, especially to help
clarify the contributions of the present work. For instance,
the relevance of the O(2) symmetries to the presence of
heteroclinic orbits, and their importance in the overall
dynamics, was first discussed by Armbruster, Guckenheimer &
Holmes (Physica D 29, 257 (1988), SIAM J. Appl. Math. 49, 676
(1989); see also Refs. [16,20]); there is not much discussion
of discrete symmetries other than D2 in the work under
review.

( Vaggelis, please include your wise observations on
Armbruster, Guckenheimer & Holmes that might or might not
have made it to the thesis. We mention D_m, but only focus on
D_2 because it is relevant to the RPOs with reflection. We
only find D3, make no attempt at a general discussion of D_n
which show up at larger L )
    ## PC: (Refs. [14,20]) seem not right? add more refs.

Of particular interest in the present work are the relative
periodic orbits, satisfying u(x, t)= u(x + .p,t + Tp); these
are also known as modulated traveling waves (MTWs).

( We now refer to MTWs in the abstract and in the
  introduction. Traveling waves go unstable, 'modulated'
  by Hopf - too narrow. They find quasiperiodic as 2ndary
  Hopf bifurcation - we do observe them. In chaos periodic
  orbits come from other mechanisms.)

These were studied, for instance, by Armbruster et al.
(1988,1989), and a detailed computation of numerous
bifurcation branches of these solutions was presented by
[Brown and Kevrekidis 1996];

( We now refer to MTWs in the abstract and in the
  introduction.
 # refer to more Ambruster papers )


( This is a relevant paper that we need to discuss. The
discussion of different types of solutions possible. In
particular, they discuss 'relative quasiperiodic solutions',
which we don't, but I don't think their symmetry condition in
eq. (4.1) includes our RPOs with reflection (aka pre-periodic
orbits).

## ES: Their condition is for a periodic orbit with symmetry
C_k, ours is with symmmetry D_1, which they don't discuss.
They are all admitted by the symmetry of the problem, I
discuss this in my thesis but not very well, a better source
is Golubitsky and Stewart. The interesting question is
whether they exist for our system size. Perhaps the only
reason we din't find them is that we didn't explicitly look
for them.
 ## PC to Vaggelis: please write a brief discussion?

It would be of interest to know how the MTWs (relative
periodic orbits) computed by the present authors for L = 22
fit into the complicated bifurcation structure discussed by
[Brown and Kevrekidis 1996], as this might help in
understanding them better.

( PC: add to the paper:
We do not study bifurcation structure in this paper; while
tracking bifurcations is crucial to understanding the onset
of t********e (the forbidden word), once the hell breaks lose
(AKA fully developed chaos) the more useful tools are the
stretching and folding captured by baker maps, Henon maps,
unstable manifolds, etc. For the fully developed t********e
we are all clueless. The thrust of present research is to fix
all parameters, and jump deep into a given chaotic system,
elucidate it. We leave the study of variation in transport
coefficients as a function of system parameters to future
investigations. )


In the manuscript under review, a large number of relative
periodic orbits (MTWs) is computed for L = 22; however, the
discussions concerning these MTWs and their dynamical
significance (potentially the main contribution of this work)
feel to me to be somewhat incomplete. For instance, a
particular ("typical" " p.20) MTW with Tp ~ 32.8 is selected
(Fig. 6.2(b)) which appears in the representations of Fig.
8.1 to be not too dissimilar from the chaotic (not
"turbulent") flow.

( ## RLD: include the fact that we now have over 30000 RPOs
  and PPOs each with T < 200)
( ##PC: subject of the 2nd paper. Refer to Vaggelis thesis.
  ##RLD: Add section (or sub-section) on proximity of a
typical chaotic orbit to E_k and TW_k. This will illustrate
that the dynamics for L=22 is influenced mostly by E_2 and
E_3, while E_1 and TW_k don't play much role in the dynamics
(the chaotic orbit never comes close to them).
##ES: do not believe this any longer. After symmetry 	
reduction one can study the unstable manifold of TW_1 and
E_1 and surprisingly the do affect dynamics, even if the
folding mechanism is such that the 	asymptotic dynamics does
not come close to TW_1 (this is in chapter 	VIII in the
thesis). The same appears to be true 	for the unstable
manifold of E_1 but it is harder to tell in 	that case so
it is now in thesis flotsam. This should be included 	in
the next paper though, so I suggest that we say we 	examine
their significance in a future publication.
 )

However, it is not fully discussed how generic this
observation is: how was this orbit selected? What behavior
would the other relative periodic orbits display? Is there a
way to organize the relative periodic orbits, or to compute
suitable averages over them? I realize that much of this is
the subject of ongoing research.

( This orbit is the least unstable periodic orbit we found. It
is visited within the attractor most often.
As the referee will probably agree with us once the sequel
[Siminos et al 2009] is submitted: there is much too much new
material to incorporate into a single paper. The RPOs will be
organized once we construct suitable return maps. )


Representation of Solutions
===========================

One of the stated main results of the present work is the
visualization of the dynamics through "projections onto
dynamically invariant, PDE-discretization independent state
space coordinate frames", as well as through "physical,
symmetry invariant observables, such as "energy", dissipation
rate, etc." (p.2).

While it is apparent that eigenvectors of the equilibria
E1,E2 and E3 are dynamically invariant and relevant, it is
not clearly discussed by the authors in which ways a
visualization through projection onto these eigenvectors
might have advantages compared to other previously-used
approaches using, say, Fourier mode amplitudes. Indeed, a
representation of the dynamics using, say, Fourier modes is
quite independent of the discretization (finite difference,
Galerkin, pseudo-spectral etc.) used for numerical
integration of the PDE; and one could argue that Fourier
modes (which are eigenvectors of the linearization about the
trivial equilibrium E0) are as dynamically relevant as
eigenvectors of the other equilibria.

( Don't know how to answer here. )

If one is to follow the authors" suggestion to choose a
representation using dynamical invariants, how does one
choose a suitable set of axes? The authors do not seem to
motivate, for instance, their choices of the stable
eigenmodes Re e(6) in Figs. 5.4 and 5.5, e(7) in Fig. 5.6 and
e(4) in Fig. 5.8; other, apparently equally reasonable
choices could have been made.

( The motivation was to choose components which are
nonzero for the equilibria the heteroclinic orbits connect.
For example, connecting E2 and E3, we need eigenvector
along which both of these solutions are nonzero. The smallest
one corresponds to the 6-th mode. )

Furthermore, their chosen representations vary from figure to
figure, making comparisons between different figures
difficult, as they contain eigenvectors of different
equilibria. For instance (although this is not clearly
discussed in the manuscript), the e(1) of Figs. 5.4, 5.6 and
5.8 are all different, being the first unstable eigenmode of
equilibria E1,E2 and E3 respectively.

It is also worthwhile to note that various authors (for
instance Osinga) have already described three-dimensional
visualizations of invariant manifolds. For the case of the KS
equation, Johnson, Jolly & Kevrekidis, Int. J. Bifur. Chaos
11, 1 (2001), demonstrate an interesting global bifurcation
through visualization of changes in the geometry of the
invariant manifolds.

( if problem were linear, Fourier modes would be the thing.
  Credit Gibson. A way to visualize orbits in their natural
  frames. We also have a picture that links all these together
  is 5.9 - a cage that organizes the dynamics.
  If you want to visualize N-dimensional space, N>3 one needs
  different projections to get a sense of it.
    ## PC cite Osinga, Johnson, Jolly & Kevrekidis?
## ES: Johnson, Jolly & Kevrekidis study the intersection 	
of unstable and stable manifolds of equilibria of an 	
antisymmetric KS system, through restriction on an 	
approximate $3$-dimensional inertial manifold. Therefore 	
they bypass the problem of high-dimensionality of the 	
stable manifolds. Their system size is between the bimodal 	
and trimodal bifurcations. As the system size becomes larger 	
one would need a higher-dimensional inertial manifold to 	
accurately describe the dynamics and therefore the
visualization 	of high-dimensional stable manifolds would
pose problems. 	On the contrary we investigate the role of
the (relatively) 	low-dimensional unstable manifolds in
connecting neighborhoods 	of equilibria, with the role of
unstable manifolds already factored 	in the geometrical
picture by the fact that if a heteroclinic 	connection exists
it is on the unstable manifold as well on the unstable
manifold.
 )

Energy
======

As for the eigenmodes discussed previously, it is not really
explained why projection onto axes of the
(symmetry-invariant) energy, production and dissipation rates
might be preferable to other means for visualizing solutions.
(Note that in terms of the usual L2 norm, these quantities
defined on p.9 are merely E = .u.2/2L, P = .ux.2/L, D =
.uxx.2/L.) Indeed, I would expect that for spatially extended
spatiotemporally chaotic or turbulent systems, much of the
energy transfer would be localized in space, and could
thereby not be captured by these spatially averaged measures.
On the other hand, in the presence of sufficient spatial
decorrelation (so that in the large-L limit, time averages of
the chaotic dynamics may be approximated by spatial
averages), I would expect as L increases, the difference
between E(t), P (t) and D(t) and their time-averaged values
would decrease, so that for larger L,a projection of solution
trajectories onto E-P -D axes would become increasingly less
useful.

( not true - system does not appear to be localized in
  any of our solutions )

Some smaller points include:

1.	Page 3: There is a brief discussion here on the lack of
structural stability with respect to truncation N, but I
found little further indication in the remainder of the
manuscript as to whether such sensitivity to N was indeed
observed, or how the computed results were determined to be
robust.

( ## RLD write this:
Do we observe structural instability in our simulations? We
now mention on p.3 and in Appendix C that the POs/RPOs we
find are structurally stable, since they are found with 16
modes and then refined with 32. Out of the set of a few
thousand determined here there have been two solutions which,
after being detected with 16 modes, failed to converge with
32 modes. This might have been due to also changing the
integration stepsize from 0.25 to 0.1. They were not included
in the list of detected orbits. )

2.	Page 6: A clarification of the use of the term "GLMRT
equilibrium" for E1 might be helpful.
  ## ES write this

3.	
Page 9: The first line of equation (3.8) should read

E.= .utu. = - .. u 2/2+ ux + uxxx . x u . .

( thank you )

4.	Page 10: In terms of the definition (3.6) for E in this
manuscript, the best current bound (Refs. [1,12]) on
\limit_{t\to\infty} as a function of L scales as E \approx
L^2, not \approx L^{3/2} .

( #PC Vaggelis, recheck!
  thank you )

5.	Page 12: The last column of Table 5.1, for t1/4En
Symmetry, follows completely from the second-to-last column
(under the exchange U+ U(1)), and thus seems redundant.

( correct - we found it convenient to write it, and it does
not save space not writing it anyway)

Why do many, but not all, of the eigenvalues of E3 come in
pairs?

( large Fourier modes essentially decouple, giving pairing.
  Not sure why it happens so early for E3 )

Are the eigenvalues of TW_1 and TW_2 plotted in Fig. 5.2, as
indicated in the text?

( thank you, text now moved to equilibrium stability list )

6.	Page 13: While I was able to compute the values of T for
E1 and E2 in Table 5.2 according to the prescription of p.12,
I do not understand how T ~ 10.71 as the characteristic time
scale for E3 was computed.

( ## write in the text
  E1 and E2 come from complex eigenvalues, E3 from a real
  one - it is characteristic time scale )

There is considerable discussion of the dynamical relevance
of the unstable manifolds of the equilibria, but appears to
be none concerning the relative equilibria (traveling waves)
shown in Fig. 5.3; can anything be said regarding their
influence on the dynamics?

( Subject of next paper, Vaggelis thesis )
( RLD: We can just say that TWs appear to sit far away from the
chaotic attractor, while Ek, especially E2 and E3, are quite
close to it. )

7.	Page 15: I found no reference to Figure 5.7 in the text.

( referred to in Figure 5.8)

In the caption of Fig. 5.6: the eigenvector e(7) for E2 seems
to be complex (see Table 5.1), so surely one needs to choose
either Re e(7) or Im e(7)? In the paragraph below Fig. 5.6:
Not all orbits within the unstable manifold of E2 converge to
t1/4 E2, since there is a trajectory approaching E3.

( ##RLD will fix. say 'except for ...')

8.	Page 16: Some more discussion in the text with
computational details concerning how the search for relative
periodic orbits was performed, or stronger references to the
Appendices, might be useful in Section 6.

(Appendix C describes the method in detail.
## RLD We will make the
reference to it stronger.)

9.	Appendices: The motivation for including these appendices
should be made clearer; could it have been sufficient just to
cite Refs. [18, 24] and other references for the algorithms?

( ## RLD will fix:
The important difference from Lopez et al. (ref [24]) is
that we employ Levenberg-Marquardt to a system without
additional constraints. This simplifies the method and
improves both the hit rate (i.e. the fraction of seeds that
converge to an RPO) and the convergence speed.  To our
knowledge, this way of applying the LM algorithm,
and in particular MINPACK's lmder solver, to find POs and
RPOs in flows has not been described before.)

[Brown and Kevrekidis 1996] also give an algorithm
for computing MTWs (relative periodic orbits). It was also
not clear to me whether the Levenberg-Marquardt search of
App. C or the Newton shooting method of App. D was used for
these computations. It would be helpful to have an indication
of how these two methods compare, and which might be
preferable.

( The numerical method Armbruster et al. (1988,1989), [Brown
  and Kevrekidis 1996] use to find RPOs is similar to our
  Newton method (previously in App. D, now [Siminos 2009]) in
  that it has additional conditions to eliminate neutral
  directions (with unit eigenvalues). Vast majority of our RPOs
  was computed as in App. C)
( removed Appendix D of 1st submission: now in [Siminos 2009] )
  ## ES: removed, added reference to other papers that impose
	constraints and also to The Thesis.

Some care might be taken with notation. For instance, ap in
(C.1) refers to a vector of N - 2 Fourier modes, while ak in
(2.2), p.3 is an individual Fourier mode, and a0 near the
bottom of p.24 is a starting guess (is a0 = a(1) in (C.2)?).

( ##RLD
  you are right, thanks. Fixed now )

( change p.24 )

The definitions of $a, T$ and $\ell$ could have been written
in App. C, rather than just being given at the beginning of
App. D.

## Vaggelis check: not removed definitions $a, T$ and $\ell$?

( In light of the referee's comments and since this method
was used much less when locating RPOs, we removed Appendix D
of 1st submission: now in [Siminos 2009] )
( removed subsection about 'proximity', p.? of 1st submission)

References
==========

[Brown and Kevrekidis 1996] H. S. Brown and I. G. Kevrekidis,
"Modulated traveling waves for the Kuramoto-Sivashinsky
equation," in Pattern Formation: Symmetry Methods and
Applications, D. Benest and C. Froeschl"e, eds., vol. 5 of
Fields Inst. Commun., Providence, RI, 1996, AMS, pp. 45"66.

[Foias et al 1985] C. Foias and B. Nicolaenko and G. R. Sell
and R. Temam, "Inertial manifold for the
{K}uramoto-{S}ivashinsky equation", C. R. Acad. Sci. I-Math
301, 285--288 (1985)

[Siminos 2009] E. Siminos, Recurrent spatio-temporal
structures in presence of continuous symmetries, PhD thesis,
School of Physics, Georgia Institute of Technology (Atlanta
2009). ChaosBook.org/projects/theses.html.

[Siminos et al 2009] E. Siminos, P. Cvitanovi"c, and R. L.
Davidchack, "Recurrent spatio-temporal structures of
translationally invariant Kuramoto-Sivashinsky flow." In
preparation (2009)


=== BLAH BLAH, to be removed ===============================
1. I certainly acknowledge that Waleffe's work is brilliant
in many ways, but it would be best if the authors take the
above remarks into account.

( We are very grateful for this correction. I went back, did
  a better of the literature, and rewrote the introduction.)

( Thank you. This is now addressed more accurately in the
  revised intro.)

(##ES: I suggest to add the following: By studying
bifurcations Brown and Kevrekidis (1996) were able to locate
two MTWs for the system size we work on. This suggest that a
bifurcation analysis is not the most efficient approach in a
study such as ours.
   ##RLD: do not want to say this)


===========================================================
rpo_ks/SIADS/reviews/response2.1.txt
$Author$ $Date$
