siminos/froehlich/00ReadMe.txt
$Author: predrag $ $Date: 2010-04-21 18:36:47 -0400 (Wed, 21 Apr 2010) $
----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Stefan Froehlich professional correspondence
============================================

President’s Undergraduate Research Awards (PURA)
    www.gatech.edu/calendar/event.html?nid=55598
    due: May 17, 2010 12:00 am

100517PURAappl.txt

The UROP office will be expecting a letter of recommendation
from professor on the student's behalf by either email or by
filling out the form using the link below.
       www.undergraduateresearch.gatech.edu/PURAForm/PURARecForm.php
Guidelines say that it should at least say something like

"I agree to mentor Stefan in Fall 2010 on his project

'Symmetry reduction in pipe and planes turbulent flows'

and to provide a student summary to PURA at the end of the
semester".

But a little more detail is better.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTES: I did a summer REU for the math department here 2 years
ago and then continued the research into the fall. I did a
summer REU for the math department at cornell last summer. I
have won the undergraduate award for top non-graduating math
student the past 2 years. I have a 3.98 GPA.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
TO FIX:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Final Proposal:

Symmetry reduction of shear turbulent flows in pipe and planes
geometries

The flow of a fluid can be described by the Navier-Stokes
equations. While these equations have been known since the
1800s, their nonlinearity makes them extraordinarily difficult
to solve. It is only recently with the use of computers that we
have been able to start finding more than very simplistic
solutions. For certain situations, the Navier-Stokes equations
have symmetries that can be exploited to reduce the difficulty
of the problem. Working under Professor Predrag Cvitanovi?, I
will investigate two different flows: the plane Couette flow
and the pipe flow. In the plane Couette flow the fluid is
sheared by two parallel planes moving in opposite directions.
In the pipe flow the fluid is driven by a pressure drop through
an infinitely long cylindrical pipe, a fairly good
approximation for the pipes used in everyday life.

The Navier-Stokes equations exhibit rotational, translational,
and inversion symmetries for both flows. I will study various
methods of reducing symmetries and try to apply them to these
two problems.

The main focus of the research will be on using the so-called
"method of moving frames" to reduce the symmetry of the
problem. The time evolution of the fluid traces out a
trajectory in the state space. For Navier-Stokes flows this
state space is in principle infinite dimensional, but in
practice always finite, but very high-dimensional, of order of
105 for realistic numerical simulations. Instead of looking at
the entire state space, only "slices" of it are used and the
system's symmetries are then used to construct a flow
constrained to these slices. The trajectory in the full state
space of the system is completely determined by the trajectory
on these slices, along with what symmetries were used to keep
the system in the slices.

An alternative method that I will also explore is the
reformulation of flow equations in terms of Hilbert bases. A
Hilbert basis is a set of symmetry-invariant polynomials that
are linearly independent, though they are related by nonlinear
relations. The system is then considered in the coordinate
frame of these invariant polynomials. This method is the most
common for symmetry reduction in problems with low dimension,
but as the dimension of the system increases the computation of
polynomials appears (so far) too difficult to implement in
practice.

Much research has been done on reducing physical problems by
using symmetries. Evangelos Siminos wrote his 2009 GaTech PhD
theses on such symmetry reductions and tested them on various
well known systems. Undergraduate student Rebecca Wilczak
applied the method of moving frames to the complex Lorenz flow
during her University of Chicago NSF REU under prof.
Cvitanovi?. My research will build upon and be a continuation
of theirs, but applied to more challenging, realistic plane
Couette and pipe flows, where recent experimental progress has
been made. The challenges and what I hope to learn fit
perfectly into the goals and the skill-set of my double major
in Mathematics and Physics.
